.TH "THERION" "1"
.SH "NAME"
loch \(em Therion model viewer
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.PP
\fBloch\fR [FILE]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP
This manual page documents
\fBloch\fR, which is part of the therion-viewer package.
.PP
\fBloch\fR is a 3D viewer which displays .lox files produced
by therion and allows them to be examined.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.PP
loch optionally takes a .lox, Survex .3d or Compass .plt file to open.
.SH "BASIC CONTROL"
.PP
\fBKey and Mouse Controls\fR
.TS
tab();
l l l.
FunctionMouse actionKey
Zoom & RotateLeft click + drag
Zoom onlyLeft click + drag up/down, then hold left and click rightCtrl + Up/Down
Rotate onlyLeft click + drag left/right, then hold left and click rightLeft/Right
PanRight click + dragShift + Arrows
TiltMiddle (wheel) click + drag  or wheel rotateUp/Down
Full screenLeft double click F11
Context menuRight click
.TE
.PP
If continuous rotation is turned on, then rotation mouse movements
change the speed or direction of rotation. If rotation is locked, then
rotation mouse movements have no effect.
.SH "OFF SCREEN RENDERING"
.PP
Loch is able to render large bitmaps that can be afterwards post
processed and printed. Bitmaps can be exported in PDF, PNG or BMP
formats. Configuration of export is done via the Rendering setup dialog.
You can set the following features:
.PP
\fISize and Scaling\fP
.PP
Screen shot: Screen copy will be saved into a file with no other changes.
.PP
Image width:  The screen image will be exported with the specified width.
.PP
Image height: The screen image will be exported with the specified height.
.PP
Scale: The screen image will be exported with the specified scale.
.PP
\fIImage options\fP
.PP
Rendering resolution: Resolution of the image file used when image size
or scale are specified.
.PP
Image size: Image size in pixels and uncompressed bytes calculated from
previous settings.
.PP
White background: Force white background in exported image.
.SH "KNOWN BUGS"
.PP
Sometimes empty rectangles appear in off screen rendered file.
Changing the window size usually helps.
.PP
* Crashes have been observed on intel graphics cards unless the
 texture initialisations are removed in the code.
.PP
* Stereo mode does not work correctly on some graphics adapters.
.PP
* This help does not work.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
therion(1), xtherion(1)
.PP
For full information see the Therion Manual in /usr/share/doc/therion-doc/thbook.pdf
which describes therion-viewer and its use in detail.
.SH "AUTHOR"
.PP
This manual page was adapted from existing docs by Wookey wookey@debian.org for
the \fBDebian\fP system (but may be used by others).  Permission is
granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document under
the terms of the GNU General Public Licence,
Version 2 or any later version published by the Free
Software Foundation.
