.TH "THERION" "1" "2003/07/15"
.SH "NAME" 
Therion \(em program to draw cave surveys 
.SH "SYNOPSIS" 
.PP 
\fBtherion\fP [\fB-q\fP] [\fB-L\fP] [\fB-l \fIlog-file\fR]  
        [\fB-s \fIsource file\fR] [\fB-p \fIsearch path\fR]  
        [\fB-g\fP|\fB-u\fP] [\fB-i\fP] [\fB-d\fP] [\fB-x\fP] [config-file]
.PP
\fBtherion\fP [\fB-h\fP|\fB--help\fP]
        [\fB-v\fP|\fB--version\fP]
        [\fB--print-encodings\fP]  
        [\fB--print-tex-encodings\fP]  
        [\fB--print-init-file\fP]  
.SH "DESCRIPTION" 
.PP 
This manual page briefly documents \fBTherion\fP and provides an overview of 
the package. 
.PP 
\fBTherion\fP is a program that processes Therion data files to produce cave 
surveys. The data files are usually .th files which contain survey  
data, largely equivalent to survex .svx files, .th2 files which contain drawing  
data and thconfig files which control the data files to be used and the maps to 
be output.  
.PP 
\fBTherion\fP uses a number of helper programs to do its  
job. \fBSurvex\fP is used to process the centreline data,  
\fBMetaPost\fP is used to draw cave symbols, and  
\fBpdfTeX\fP generates the final maps. 
.PP 
In order to make the entering of drawing data practical, and to make the  
editing of survey files easier, a graphical editor \fBXTherion\fP  
is included. This also includes a 'compiler' function which runs Therion on the  
data to produce output. This is implemented using Tcl/Tk. 
.PP 
The Therion data files describe the cave as text in terms of objects so  
the corresponding graphical representations are only inserted at output generation 
time. This means that a survey can be produced using whichever symbol set you  
require by specifying the relevant set of MetaPost macros. Currently the UIS symbol  
set is supported. 
.PP 
Multiple languages and character sets are supported \(em currently ISO-8859-1,  
ISO-8859-2, ISO-8859-5, ISO-8859-7, UTF-8, ASCII and CP1250. 
.SH "ARGUMENTS" 
.PP 
therion takes only one argument \(em a \fIconfig-file\fP. If no file is 
specified then the default \fIthconfig\fP file in the current directory will 
be used. A new default file can be created using the \fB-g\fP option. 
.SH "OPTIONS" 
.PP 
This program follows the usual GNU command line syntax, 
with long options starting with two dashes ("--").  A summary of 
options is included below.  For a complete description, see 
\fBThe Therion Book\fP. 
.IP "\fB-h\fP, \fB--help\fP" 10 
Show summary of options. 
.IP "\fB-v\fP, \fB--version\fP" 10 
Show version information. 
.IP "\fB-q\fP" 10 
Quiet mode \(em minimise output. 
.IP "\fB-g\fP" 10 
Generate a new configuration file. This will be the given config-file if 
specified, or \fBthconfig\fP in the current directory if not. If the file 
already exists, it will be overwritten. 
.IP "\fB-i\fP" 10 
Ignore comments when writing (-g|-u) configuration file. 
.IP "\fB-L\fP" 10 
Do not create a log-file. Normally all messages are written 
into a \fBtherion.log\fP file. 
.IP "\fB-l log-file\fP" 10 
Change the name of the log file. 
.IP "\fB-p search-path\fP" 10 
This option is used to set the search path (or list of paths,  
separated by colon), which therion will use to find its source 
files (if it doesn't find them in the working directory). 
.IP "\fB-q\fP" 10 
Run therion in quiet mode. It will print only warning 
and error messages (to STDERR). 
.IP "\fB--print-encodings\fP" 10 
Print a list of all supported encodings. 
.IP "\fB--print-init-file\fP" 10 
Print a default initialisation file. For more details 
see the Initialisation section in the Appendix of the Therion Book. 
.IP "\fB-s\fP" 10 
Set the name of the source file. 
.IP "\fB-u\fP" 10 
Upgrade the configuration file. 
.IP "\fB-d\fP" 10 
Turn on debugging mode. The current implementation creates a  
temporary directory named \fBthTMPDIR\fP (in your system temporary  
directory) and does not delete any temporary files. 
.SH "SEE ALSO" 
.PP 
xtherion (1)
.PP 
For full information see The Therion Book which describes Therion and its use 
in detail. 
.SH "AUTHORS" 
.PP 
Stacho Mudrak and Martin Budaj. This manual page was written by Wookey 
wookey@debian.org for the \fBDebian\fP system. Modified by MB.